# Basic Usage

This is a command line tool that converts Doxygen generated XML files into markdown files (or JSON). You can then use
the generated Markdown files to create beautiful C++ documentation using:

- [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/),
- [GitBook](https://github.com/GitbookIO/gitbook),
- [VuePress](https://vuepress.vuejs.org/),
- [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/),
- [Docsify](https://docsify.js.org/#/),
- or any other static site generator that supports markdown.

This project is not limited to only the static site generators listed here, you can use any other one.
The config file will help you to accomplish that by specifying the behavior or file names, relative
links, other requirements of the static site generator.

If you don't prefer the Markdown output generated by this tool, you can always make your own templates
and supply them into this tool via the command line. If you don't want to bother with the templates, you can
simply generate JSON only output, which contains partial Markdown for some things such as brief and
detailed description, and use your own tool to create the documentation you want.

## Command line arguments

{{ cli_options("docs/cli-options.txt") }} 

## Overriding options

Note, `--config-data` can be used on top of `--config` to overwrite config properties:

!!! example ""

    === "Windows"

        Example on Windows terminal (double `""` escapes the double quote):
        
        ```cmd
        doxybook ... --config-data "{""link_suffix"": """"}"
        ```

    === "Linux"

        ```bash
        doxybook ... --config-data '{"link_suffix": ""}'
        ```

!!! hint "GitBook specific usage"

    GitBook requires that your `SUMMARY.md` file contains all of the other markdown files. If the markdown file is not
    listed in here, it will not be generated into a HTML file. Therefore, using `--summary-input` and `--summary-output`
    you
    can generate a `SUMMARY.md` file. This works by creating a "template", let's call it `SUMMARY.md.tmpl`. This template
    file will not get modified by doxybook. You will need to put in any links you see fit (external links? other markdown
    files?), and then you will need to add `{{doxygen}}` (including the double curly backets) somewhere in this template
    summary. Note that the indentation of `{{doxygen}}` matters and will affect the output! Example:
    
    ```markdown
    # Doxybook Example
    
    * [Introduction](README.md)
      {{doxygen}}
    * [GitHub](https://github.com/matusnovak/doxybook)
    ```
    
    And when running:
    
    ```bash
    doxybook \
        --input path/to/input/xml \
        --output path/to/output/reference \
        --config path/to/config.json \
        --summary-input path/to/SUMMARY.md.tmpl \
        --summary-output path/to/SUMMARY.md
    ```
    
    The `path/to/SUMMARY.md` will be generated and `{{doxygen}}` will be overwritten with a nested list. It will look like
    this:
    
    ```markdown
    # Doxybook Example
    
    * [Introduction](README.md)
      * [Classes](Classes/README.md)
        * [Engine::Exception](Classes/class_engine_1_1_exception.md)
        * [Engine::Assets::Asset](Classes/class_engine_1_1_assets_1_1_asset.md)
        [...]
      * [Namespaces](Namespaces/README.md)
        * [Engine](Namespaces/namespace_engine.md)
        [...]
    * [GitHub](https://github.com/matusnovak/doxybook)
    ```
    
    There is a sample config and summary template file located in the `example/gitbook` folder in this repository.
    
### Generating JSON only

You can generate JSON only files (no Markdown) by adding `--json` to the command line (with no value). Such as the
following:

```bash
doxybook --input path/to/input/xml --output path/to/output/reference --json
```
